---
title: 'Jinletma'
description: 'Overview of the unique Jinletma species, a sapient colonial organism with unconventional biology, society, and technological development.'
---

In the densely packed system of Tenbrasila, it is hard to miss outliers. And few exist on the fringes more than the Jinletma. Incomparable to any other species, they stand apart not only in their unique biology but also in their culture, history, and mentality. This has led to a myriad of views, many of which are negative.

To the naked eye, Jinletmas appear only as a large, semi-solid, gelatinous blob, but when placed under a microscope, the true power of the Jinletma becomes apparent. Instead of one singular organism, they are a type of siphonophore, composed of billions of microscopic zooids that work together to form a sapient, thinking being. They can morph and shift their forms to squeeze through any crack that even a single zooid can move through, and survive dramatically more damage than any species with more conventional morphology could handle. With no organ system to target, no blood vessel running through the body, and no way to separate chunks from each other for more than just a moment, it may feel as if they are immortal. Fortunately for their opposition, they have poor heat and alcohol resistance. There have been accounts of especially ‘fortified’ humans using a flask of liquid morale as a last resort, and living to be fortified another day as the Junletma writhe to avoid the sanitizing effects of the especially powerful alcohol.

Being composed of millions of tiny organisms that work together to form a sapient person has given Jinletmas a very unique perspective on life, or more accurately, death. The passing of a single zooid is as meaningless to a Jinletma as the death of a cell is to a Human; those that are lost will simply be replaced in a matter of moments, thanks to the asexual reproduction of the zooids. But since the zooids themselves are independent animals with their own reproduction, there is no meaningful Hayflick limit. But their immortality doesn’t end there, as previously mentioned, they can withstand a myriad of attacks that would cripple or kill a conventional sapient, but if they do end up losing more zooids than is sustainable, they can simply merge with another colony of zooids. There is a limit to the size of these merged colonies, as once they get too large, the zooids begin having communication issues with one another.

The merging and splitting of zooid colonies have cultivated a very loose definition of self, which they use to their advantage. While they do not have an organ system, they do still have localized information storage zooids that act like a very loose brain structure, though the info that they hold can easily be passed onto other zooids inside of the same colony. When reproducing, a Jinletma will implant a copy of the data stored in their loose brains into the new colony, effectively cloning their memories. Combined with the ability to merge with others to share memories before splitting again, their society takes on a very homogeneous and strangely uniform look. They’ve no concept of clothing, the closest thing being the mechanical skeletons they use for transportation in accommodating environments, and find very little value in a beautiful environment, considering their minimal visual capabilities. Using a single ‘eye’ zooid, they can achieve an inferior form of sight. Instead, they tend to rely on smell to navigate their surroundings. This has led to a lot of speculation as to whether or not the Jinletma should have ever reached the impressive technological level that they are at, though their extensive use of AI sheds some light on this.

But that leads to an intriguing question: How did the Jinletma enter any kind of civilization in the first place? By most accounts, the Jinletma shouldn’t have been able to achieve anything near an FTL capable civilization on their own, but yet they seem to be one of the most advanced known. Without confirmation, those who care are left speculating, though one thing is for certain, and that is that they had help somewhere along the way. The most evident proof of this fact is in the AI that they use so much.